README.md, before:

# MCP9808 Temperature Logger

Log temperature from an [MCP9808 sensor](https://www.adafruit.com/product/1782)
connected to a Raspberry Pi or BeagleBone Black.

Print timestamp and temperature to stdout:

    python log_temp.py stdout

Log timestamp and three temperature values, taken two seconds apart,
to a CSV file:

    python log_temp.py -n 3 csv temp_log.csv

Log via [Google Cloud IoT Core](https://cloud.google.com/iot-core/), storing
the data in Google Cloud Datastore or Google Cloud Bigtable (see the App Engine
app in the [receiver](receiver) directory):

    python log_temp.py iotcore -p my-gcp-project -r my-iot-core-registry -k device_key.pem --device_id my-device

Log via [Google Cloud Pub/Sub](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/), which like
IoT Core can store the data in Google Cloud Datastore or Google Cloud Bigtable
with the [receiver](receiver) App Engine app:

    python log_temp.py pubsub -p my-gcp-project -t my-pubsub-topic --device_id my-device

Log timestamp and three temperature values, taken five seconds apart, to a
Google Sheets spreadsheet:

    python log_temp.py -n 3 -i 5 sheets -k keyfile.json -s 1BxiMVs0XRA5nFMdKvBdBZjgmUUqptlbs74OgvE2upms

Set up a cron job, use it in a daemon, the world's your oyster...as long as the
world is temperature values read from the MCP9808.

## Prerequisites

On the Raspberry Pi / BeagleBone, install packages from
``requirements_logging.txt``:

    # This is required for the cryptography package
    sudo apt-get install build-essential libssl-dev libffi-dev python-dev

    pip install --user -r requirements_logging.txt

On your development machine, install packages from ``requirements_dev.txt``.
This will install [pandas](http://pandas.pydata.org), as it's needed for
plotting. Pandas is not required for logging and can take a long time to build
and install on a system like a Raspberry Pi so it's only included in
``requirements_dev.txt``.

    pip install --user -r requirements_dev.txt

Adafruit have a tutorial with information on wiring up the hardware:
https://learn.adafruit.com/mcp9808-temperature-sensor-python-library/overview

__NOTE:__ You may need to enable I<sup>2</sup>C on your board. For Raspberry Pi,
this can be done with ``raspi-config``. You'll find the "I2C" option under
either "Advanced Options" or "Interfacing Options".

## Setting up Google Cloud IoT Core logging

The scripts at https://github.com/mtraver/provisioning are useful for creating
the CA key and cert and device-specific keys and certs described below.

- Create an IoT Core registry.
  The [IoT Core quickstart](https://cloud.google.com/iot/docs/quickstart)
  provides more info. The registry includes:
  - A Pub/Sub topic for telemetry (you'll need to create the topic if it
    doesn't already exist)
  - A Pub/Sub topic for state (you'll need to create the topic if it
    doesn't already exist)
  - A CA cert for verifying device certs. This can be self-signed.
- Add devices to the registry. This requires a device-specific cert that chains
  to the CA cert. The key and cert can be made with the scripts in the repo
  linked above. Heed the information there about key handling and about the
  device ID (the device ID you use when making the cert must be the same as the
  one you set when adding the device to the registry).
- Create a subscription to the registry's telemetry topic. Configure it to
  push to the ``/_ah/push-handlers/telemetry`` endpoint of the receiver app.
  This is how IoT Core is tied to the receiver app.

The end-to-end flow is like this:
1. A device sends a payload (in this case a protobuf; see
   [measurement.proto](measurement.proto)) to IoT Core.
2. IoT Core publishes the payload as a Pub/Sub message to the registry's
   telemetry Pub/Sub topic.
3. Pub/Sub pushes the message to the receiver app's endpoint, as configured in
   the subscription to the topic.
4. The receiver app receives the request, decodes the payload, and writes
   it to the database.

## Setting up Google Cloud Pub/Sub logging

TODO

## Setting up Google Sheets logging

Google provide a guide to using the Sheets API in Python:
https://developers.google.com/sheets/api/quickstart/python.

1. Follow "Step 1: Turn on the Google Sheets API" and use the wizard linked
   there to make a project and set up access credentials. What you want is a
   "service account", which is what the wizard will recommend if you say that
   you want access from a headless device/crontab/etc. You'll get an email
   address that looks something like this:

   ``<something>@<something>.iam.gserviceaccount.com``

   You'll also get a JSON file containing the key for that service account.
   Put it in a safe place.

2. Now make a Google Sheets spreadsheet and share it with the service account
   email address, giving edit permissions.

   Note the spreadsheet ID. For the example URL below, the ID is
   ``1BxiMVs0XRA5nFMdKvBdBZjgmUUqptlbs74OgvE2upms``:

   ``https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1BxiMVs0XRA5nFMdKvBdBZjgmUUqptlbs74OgvE2upms/edit``

The JSON key file and spreadsheet ID are the two things you'll need to log to
the sheet.

## Full usage

    usage: log_temp.py [-h] [-n NUM_SAMPLES] [-i SAMPLE_INTERVAL]
                       {iotcore,pubsub,sheets,csv,stdout} ...

    Log temperature in degrees Celsius from MCP9808 sensor.

    Temperature can be logged via Google Cloud IoT Core, Google Cloud Pub/Sub,
    to a Google Sheets spreadsheet, a CSV file, or stdout.

    positional arguments:
      {iotcore,pubsub,sheets,csv,stdout}
                            Run one of these commands with the -h/--help flag to
                            see its usage.
        iotcore             Log via Google Cloud IoT Core
        pubsub              Publish to Google Cloud Pub/Sub
        sheets              Log to a Google Sheet
        csv                 Log to a CSV file
        stdout              Log to standard out

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit

    Data sampling:
      -n NUM_SAMPLES, --num_samples NUM_SAMPLES
                            Number of samples to take. Defaults to 1.
      -i SAMPLE_INTERVAL, --sample_interval SAMPLE_INTERVAL
                            Number of seconds to wait between samples. Defaults to
                            2.

Commit message:

Forge bravely into the future.
Acknowledge and thank those who came before you, but feel not that you
must stay tied to them. The future is now. The future was in 2008.

All of which is to say that now only Python 3 is supported.

README.md, after:

# MCP9808 Temperature Logger

Log temperature from an [MCP9808 sensor](https://www.adafruit.com/product/1782)
connected to a Raspberry Pi or BeagleBone Black.

Note: This project only supports Python 3. The future is now. The future was in
[2008](https://www.python.org/download/releases/3.0/). Come with us into the future.

Print timestamp and temperature to stdout:

    python3 log_temp.py stdout

Log timestamp and three temperature values, taken two seconds apart,
to a CSV file:

    python3 log_temp.py -n 3 csv temp_log.csv

Log via [Google Cloud IoT Core](https://cloud.google.com/iot-core/), storing
the data in Google Cloud Datastore or Google Cloud Bigtable (see the App Engine
app in the [receiver](receiver) directory):

    python3 log_temp.py iotcore -p my-gcp-project -r my-iot-core-registry -k device_key.pem --device_id my-device

Log via [Google Cloud Pub/Sub](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/), which like
IoT Core can store the data in Google Cloud Datastore or Google Cloud Bigtable
with the [receiver](receiver) App Engine app:

    python3 log_temp.py pubsub -p my-gcp-project -t my-pubsub-topic --device_id my-device

Log timestamp and three temperature values, taken five seconds apart, to a
Google Sheets spreadsheet:

    python3 log_temp.py -n 3 -i 5 sheets -k keyfile.json -s 1BxiMVs0XRA5nFMdKvBdBZjgmUUqptlbs74OgvE2upms

Set up a cron job, use it in a daemon, the world's your oyster...as long as the
world is temperature values read from the MCP9808.

## Prerequisites

On the Raspberry Pi / BeagleBone, install packages from
``requirements_logging.txt``:

    # This is required for the cryptography package
    sudo apt-get install build-essential libssl-dev libffi-dev python-dev python3-dev

    # I highly recommend using a virtualenv. This makes an isolated Python environment
    # so that reasoning about your dependencies is easier.
    virtualenv -p python3 env3

    # Enter the virtualenv (your prompt will change to signal you're inside)
    . env3/bin/activate

    # Upgrade the virtualenv's version of pip and setuptools
    pip install --upgrade pip setuptools

    # Install dependencies in the virtualenv
    pip install -r requirements_logging.txt

    # If you want to leave the virtualenv execute this
    deactivate

On your development machine, install packages from ``requirements_dev.txt``.
This will install [pandas](http://pandas.pydata.org), as it's needed for
plotting. Pandas is not required for logging and can take a long time to build
and install on a system like a Raspberry Pi so it's only included in
``requirements_dev.txt``.

    # virtualenv is useful on your dev machine too! See above if you want to use it.

    # Install dev dependencies
    pip install --user -r requirements_dev.txt

Adafruit have a tutorial with information on wiring up the hardware:
https://learn.adafruit.com/mcp9808-temperature-sensor-python-library/overview

__NOTE:__ You may need to enable I<sup>2</sup>C on your board. For Raspberry Pi,
this can be done with ``raspi-config``. You'll find the "I2C" option under
either "Advanced Options" or "Interfacing Options".

## Setting up Google Cloud IoT Core logging

The scripts at https://github.com/mtraver/provisioning are useful for creating
the CA key and cert and device-specific keys and certs described below.

- Create an IoT Core registry.
  The [IoT Core quickstart](https://cloud.google.com/iot/docs/quickstart)
  provides more info. The registry includes:
  - A Pub/Sub topic for telemetry (you'll need to create the topic if it
    doesn't already exist)
  - A Pub/Sub topic for state (you'll need to create the topic if it
    doesn't already exist)
  - A CA cert for verifying device certs. This can be self-signed.
- Add devices to the registry. This requires a device-specific cert that chains
  to the CA cert. The key and cert can be made with the scripts in the repo
  linked above. Heed the information there about key handling and about the
  device ID (the device ID you use when making the cert must be the same as the
  one you set when adding the device to the registry).
- Create a subscription to the registry's telemetry topic. Configure it to
  push to the ``/_ah/push-handlers/telemetry`` endpoint of the receiver app.
  This is how IoT Core is tied to the receiver app.

The end-to-end flow is like this:
1. A device sends a payload (in this case a protobuf; see
   [measurement.proto](measurement.proto)) to IoT Core.
2. IoT Core publishes the payload as a Pub/Sub message to the registry's
   telemetry Pub/Sub topic.
3. Pub/Sub pushes the message to the receiver app's endpoint, as configured in
   the subscription to the topic.
4. The receiver app receives the request, decodes the payload, and writes
   it to the database.

## Setting up Google Cloud Pub/Sub logging

TODO

## Setting up Google Sheets logging

Google provide a guide to using the Sheets API in Python:
https://developers.google.com/sheets/api/quickstart/python.

1. Follow "Step 1: Turn on the Google Sheets API" and use the wizard linked
   there to make a project and set up access credentials. What you want is a
   "service account", which is what the wizard will recommend if you say that
   you want access from a headless device/crontab/etc. You'll get an email
   address that looks something like this:

   ``<something>@<something>.iam.gserviceaccount.com``

   You'll also get a JSON file containing the key for that service account.
   Put it in a safe place.

2. Now make a Google Sheets spreadsheet and share it with the service account
   email address, giving edit permissions.

   Note the spreadsheet ID. For the example URL below, the ID is
   ``1BxiMVs0XRA5nFMdKvBdBZjgmUUqptlbs74OgvE2upms``:

   ``https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1BxiMVs0XRA5nFMdKvBdBZjgmUUqptlbs74OgvE2upms/edit``

The JSON key file and spreadsheet ID are the two things you'll need to log to
the sheet.

## Full usage

    usage: log_temp.py [-h] [-n NUM_SAMPLES] [-i SAMPLE_INTERVAL]
                       {iotcore,pubsub,sheets,csv,stdout} ...

    Log temperature in degrees Celsius from MCP9808 sensor.

    Temperature can be logged via Google Cloud IoT Core, Google Cloud Pub/Sub,
    to a Google Sheets spreadsheet, a CSV file, or stdout.

    positional arguments:
      {iotcore,pubsub,sheets,csv,stdout}
                            Run one of these commands with the -h/--help flag to
                            see its usage.
        iotcore             Log via Google Cloud IoT Core
        pubsub              Publish to Google Cloud Pub/Sub
        sheets              Log to a Google Sheet
        csv                 Log to a CSV file
        stdout              Log to standard out

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit

    Data sampling:
      -n NUM_SAMPLES, --num_samples NUM_SAMPLES
                            Number of samples to take. Defaults to 1.
      -i SAMPLE_INTERVAL, --sample_interval SAMPLE_INTERVAL
                            Number of seconds to wait between samples. Defaults to
                            2.
