cmd/README.md, before:

# Go CLI Programs

[iotcorelogger](iotcorelogger) and [readtemp](readtemp) contain code that runs
on the Raspberry Pi. `iotcorelogger` reads the temperature and logs it via
[Google Cloud IoT Core](https://cloud.google.com/iot-core/), storing the data
in Google Cloud Datastore (see the Google App Engine app in the [web](../web)
directory).

From the root of this repository,

    make

    # Log temp to Google Cloud IoT Core
    #
    # Example device.json:
    # {
    #   "project_id": "my-gcp-project",
    #   "registry_id": "my-iot-core-registry",
    #   "device_id": "my-device",
    #   "priv_key_path": "my-device.pem",
    #   "region": "us-central1"
    # }
    ./out/iotcorelogger -device device.json -cacerts roots.pem

    # Print temp to stdout
    ./out/readtemp

## Prerequisites

On your development machine / where you'll build (No, you do not need to build
on the Raspberry Pi! In fact it is slow and painful to do so.):

  1. Don't have Go installed? It's [super easy](https://golang.org/doc/install).
  2. You'll need the protocol buffer compiler, version 3.0.0 or higher. Follow
  the instructions [here](https://github.com/google/protobuf) — all you have to
  do is download a pre-built release for your platform and make sure the compiler,
  `protoc`, is on your `PATH`.
  3. You'll also need the protobuf compiler plugin that generates Go code. Follow
  the instructions [here](https://github.com/golang/protobuf), or TL;DR:
  `go get -u github.com/golang/protobuf/protoc-gen-go`

On the Raspberry Pi:

    wget https://pki.google.com/roots.pem

This is a set of trustworthy root certificates. See [here](http://pki.google.com/faq.html)
for details. The `cacerts` flag takes the path to this file.

## Building

From the root of this repository,

    make

Simple as that. This will build the `iotcorelogger` program for the host
architecture as well as ARMv6 (e.g. Raspberry Pi Zero W) and ARMv7 (e.g.
Raspberry Pi 3 B<sup>1</sup>).

## Full usage

    Usage of iotcorelogger:
      -cacerts string
          Path to a set of trustworthy CA certs.
          Download Google's from https://pki.google.com/roots.pem.
      -device string
          path to a file containing a JSON-encoded Device struct (see github.com/mtraver/iotcore)
      -interval int
          number of seconds to wait between samples (default 1)
      -numsamples int
          number of samples to take (default 3)

## Footnotes
<sup>1</sup> "How can this be!? The Raspberry Pi 3 B uses the BCM2837, a 64-bit
ARMv8 SoC!" you exclaim. "That is correct," I reply, "but Raspbian is 32-bit
only so the chip runs in 32-bit mode. It therefore cannot execute ARMv8 binaries."

Commit message:

Take device file path on command line instead of from config file
There should be one config file that sets up sensors and schedules jobs,
and then separate device files that specify how to connect to MQTT
brokers.

cmd/README.md, after:

# Go CLI Programs

[iotcorelogger](iotcorelogger) and [readtemp](readtemp) contain code that runs
on the Raspberry Pi. `iotcorelogger` reads the temperature and logs it via
[Google Cloud IoT Core](https://cloud.google.com/iot-core/), storing the data
in Google Cloud Datastore (see the Google App Engine app in the [web](../web)
directory).

From the root of this repository,

    make

    # Log temp to Google Cloud IoT Core

    # Example config.pb.json
    # {
    #   "supported_sensors": ["mcp9808"],
    #
    #   "jobs": [
    #     {
    #       "cronspec": "0 */2 * * * *",
    #       "operation": "SENSE",
    #       "sensors": ["mcp9808"]
    #     }
    #   ]
    # }
    #
    # Example device.json:
    # {
    #   "project_id": "my-gcp-project",
    #   "registry_id": "my-iot-core-registry",
    #   "device_id": "my-device",
    #   "ca_certs_path": "roots.pem",
    #   "priv_key_path": "my-device.pem",
    #   "region": "us-central1"
    # }
    ./out/iotcorelogger -config config.pb.json -gcp-device device.json

    # Print temp to stdout
    ./out/readtemp

## Prerequisites

On your development machine / where you'll build (No, you do not need to build
on the Raspberry Pi! In fact it is slow and painful to do so.):

  1. Don't have Go installed? It's [super easy](https://golang.org/doc/install).
  2. You'll need the protocol buffer compiler, version 3.0.0 or higher. Follow
  the instructions [here](https://github.com/google/protobuf) — all you have to
  do is download a pre-built release for your platform and make sure the compiler,
  `protoc`, is on your `PATH`.
  3. You'll also need the protobuf compiler plugin that generates Go code. Follow
  the instructions [here](https://github.com/golang/protobuf), or TL;DR:
  `go get -u github.com/golang/protobuf/protoc-gen-go`

On the Raspberry Pi:

    wget https://pki.google.com/roots.pem

This is a set of trustworthy root certificates. See [here](http://pki.google.com/faq.html)
for details. The path to this file is the value of `"ca_certs_path"` in the device file.

## Building

From the root of this repository,

    make

Simple as that. This will build the `iotcorelogger` program for the host
architecture as well as ARMv6 (e.g. Raspberry Pi Zero W) and ARMv7 (e.g.
Raspberry Pi 3 B<sup>1</sup>).

## Full usage

    Usage of iotcorelogger:
      -config string
          path to a file containing a JSON-encoded config proto
      -dryrun
          set to true to print rather than publish measurements
      -gcp-device string
          path to a JSON file describing a GCP IoT Core device. See github.com/mtraver/iotcore.
      -port int
          port on which the device's web server should listen (default 8080)

## Footnotes
<sup>1</sup> "How can this be!? The Raspberry Pi 3 B uses the BCM2837, a 64-bit
ARMv8 SoC!" you exclaim. "That is correct," I reply, "but Raspbian is 32-bit
only so the chip runs in 32-bit mode. It therefore cannot execute ARMv8 binaries."
