client_python/README.md, before:

# Python Client

This directory contains code that runs on the Raspberry Pi. It reads the
temperature and logs it to your platform of choice.

Note: This project only supports Python 3. The future is now. The future was in
[2008](https://www.python.org/download/releases/3.0/). Come with us into the
future.

Print timestamp and temperature to stdout:

    python3 log_temp.py stdout

Log timestamp and three temperature values, taken two seconds apart,
to a CSV file:

    python3 log_temp.py -n 3 csv temp_log.csv

Log via [Google Cloud IoT Core](https://cloud.google.com/iot-core/), storing
the data in Google Cloud Datastore or Google Cloud Bigtable (see the Google App
Engine app in the [web](web) directory):

    python3 log_temp.py iotcore -p my-gcp-project -r my-iot-core-registry \
      -k device_key.pem --device_id my-device

Log via [Google Cloud Pub/Sub](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/), which like
IoT Core can store the data in Google Cloud Datastore or Google Cloud Bigtable
with the App Engine app in [web](web):

    python3 log_temp.py pubsub -p my-gcp-project -t my-pubsub-topic --device_id my-device

Log timestamp and three temperature values, taken five seconds apart, to a
Google Sheets spreadsheet:

    python3 log_temp.py -n 3 -i 5 sheets -k keyfile.json -s 1BxiMVs0XRA5nFMdKvBdBZjgmUUqptlbs74OgvE2upms

## Prerequisites

On the Raspberry Pi, install packages from
``requirements_logging.txt``:

    # This is required for the cryptography package
    sudo apt-get install build-essential libssl-dev libffi-dev python-dev python3-dev

    # I highly recommend using a virtualenv. This makes an isolated Python environment
    # so that reasoning about your dependencies is easier. One of the commands below
    # should work, depending on how virtualenv is installed.
    virtualenv -p python3 env3
    # OR
    python3 -m virtualenv env3

    # Enter the virtualenv (your prompt will change to signal you're inside)
    . env3/bin/activate

    # Upgrade the virtualenv's version of pip and setuptools
    pip install --upgrade pip setuptools

    # Install dependencies in the virtualenv
    pip install -r requirements_logging.txt

    # If you want to leave the virtualenv execute this
    deactivate

On your development machine, install packages from ``requirements_dev.txt``.
This will install [pandas](http://pandas.pydata.org), as it's needed for
plotting. Pandas is not required for logging and can take a long time to build
and install on a system like a Raspberry Pi so it's only included in
``requirements_dev.txt``.

    # virtualenv is useful on your dev machine too! See above if you want to use it.

    # Install dev dependencies
    pip install --user -r requirements_dev.txt

## Full usage

    usage: log_temp.py [-h] [-n NUM_SAMPLES] [-i SAMPLE_INTERVAL]
                       {iotcore,pubsub,sheets,csv,stdout} ...

    Log temperature in degrees Celsius from MCP9808 sensor.

    Temperature can be logged via Google Cloud IoT Core, Google Cloud Pub/Sub,
    to a Google Sheets spreadsheet, a CSV file, or stdout.

    positional arguments:
      {iotcore,pubsub,sheets,csv,stdout}
                            Run one of these commands with the -h/--help flag to
                            see its usage.
        iotcore             Log via Google Cloud IoT Core
        pubsub              Publish to Google Cloud Pub/Sub
        sheets              Log to a Google Sheet
        csv                 Log to a CSV file
        stdout              Log to standard out

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit

    Data sampling:
      -n NUM_SAMPLES, --num_samples NUM_SAMPLES
                            Number of samples to take. Defaults to 1.
      -i SAMPLE_INTERVAL, --sample_interval SAMPLE_INTERVAL
                            Number of seconds to wait between samples. Defaults to
                            2.

Commit message:

Note in READMEs that the Python client is unmaintained

client_python/README.md, after:

# Python Client

**NOTE:** The Python client is unmaintained! It may be deleted in the future.
Please use the Go client.

This directory contains code that runs on the Raspberry Pi. It reads the
temperature and logs it to your platform of choice.

Note: This project only supports Python 3. The future is now. The future was in
[2008](https://www.python.org/download/releases/3.0/). Come with us into the
future.

Print timestamp and temperature to stdout:

    python3 log_temp.py stdout

Log timestamp and three temperature values, taken two seconds apart,
to a CSV file:

    python3 log_temp.py -n 3 csv temp_log.csv

Log via [Google Cloud IoT Core](https://cloud.google.com/iot-core/), storing
the data in Google Cloud Datastore or Google Cloud Bigtable (see the Google App
Engine app in the [web](web) directory):

    python3 log_temp.py iotcore -p my-gcp-project -r my-iot-core-registry \
      -k device_key.pem --device_id my-device

Log via [Google Cloud Pub/Sub](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/), which like
IoT Core can store the data in Google Cloud Datastore or Google Cloud Bigtable
with the App Engine app in [web](web):

    python3 log_temp.py pubsub -p my-gcp-project -t my-pubsub-topic --device_id my-device

Log timestamp and three temperature values, taken five seconds apart, to a
Google Sheets spreadsheet:

    python3 log_temp.py -n 3 -i 5 sheets -k keyfile.json -s 1BxiMVs0XRA5nFMdKvBdBZjgmUUqptlbs74OgvE2upms

## Prerequisites

On the Raspberry Pi, install packages from
``requirements_logging.txt``:

    # This is required for the cryptography package
    sudo apt-get install build-essential libssl-dev libffi-dev python-dev python3-dev

    # I highly recommend using a virtualenv. This makes an isolated Python environment
    # so that reasoning about your dependencies is easier. One of the commands below
    # should work, depending on how virtualenv is installed.
    virtualenv -p python3 env3
    # OR
    python3 -m virtualenv env3

    # Enter the virtualenv (your prompt will change to signal you're inside)
    . env3/bin/activate

    # Upgrade the virtualenv's version of pip and setuptools
    pip install --upgrade pip setuptools

    # Install dependencies in the virtualenv
    pip install -r requirements_logging.txt

    # If you want to leave the virtualenv execute this
    deactivate

On your development machine, install packages from ``requirements_dev.txt``.
This will install [pandas](http://pandas.pydata.org), as it's needed for
plotting. Pandas is not required for logging and can take a long time to build
and install on a system like a Raspberry Pi so it's only included in
``requirements_dev.txt``.

    # virtualenv is useful on your dev machine too! See above if you want to use it.

    # Install dev dependencies
    pip install --user -r requirements_dev.txt

## Full usage

    usage: log_temp.py [-h] [-n NUM_SAMPLES] [-i SAMPLE_INTERVAL]
                       {iotcore,pubsub,sheets,csv,stdout} ...

    Log temperature in degrees Celsius from MCP9808 sensor.

    Temperature can be logged via Google Cloud IoT Core, Google Cloud Pub/Sub,
    to a Google Sheets spreadsheet, a CSV file, or stdout.

    positional arguments:
      {iotcore,pubsub,sheets,csv,stdout}
                            Run one of these commands with the -h/--help flag to
                            see its usage.
        iotcore             Log via Google Cloud IoT Core
        pubsub              Publish to Google Cloud Pub/Sub
        sheets              Log to a Google Sheet
        csv                 Log to a CSV file
        stdout              Log to standard out

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit

    Data sampling:
      -n NUM_SAMPLES, --num_samples NUM_SAMPLES
                            Number of samples to take. Defaults to 1.
      -i SAMPLE_INTERVAL, --sample_interval SAMPLE_INTERVAL
                            Number of seconds to wait between samples. Defaults to
                            2.
